[Music]
there's no founder Community like this
eight annuals and three europas this is
the best of the best in SAS CEOs who may
even compete with the Next Generation
all want to share and help
we all need mentors and the whole point
of saster thousands of pieces of content
years of events is to be your virtual
mentor and that's what I needed disaster
isn't a conference it's a community it
is a work of passion at this point over
invest in customer success make your
friggin customers happy
job number one two and three is to add
value to your community each year the
kind of value for everyone to feel like
some part of saster they have to be a
part of if saster grows about 70 percent
bigger then we kind of enter the
stratosphere the world of cloud will be
here that's a great vision
if it's helpful
to kind of set the tone for where I see
things in SAS
today where we're at
um and uh and then later we can we can
pick it up like for the very last
session tomorrow and we'll do a q a at
the very end during happy hour until I
pass out or until you don't have any
more questions
um but I I just for what it's worth I'll
share my thoughts about where we are and
it's funny how many folks were in
Barcelona last year at saster Europa
okay a lot I did these slides
and I'll tie it to this and basically my
message last year in Barcelona is stop
whining and it was look obviously last
year things were easier for most folks
in 2021 When Buyers would buy anything
uh when in some cases there was a lack
of discipline in the markets which was
fun it was good but last year
there was there was still so much budget
going to Assassin Cloud that I
challenged everyone work harder stop
stop pining for 2021 in the late half of
2020 those days aren't coming back they
were crazy times are still pretty good
go out there and friggin sell something
and I still think that's the right
advice today
um
but I want to talk about how things are
different this year than a year ago last
year was challenging
um but I thought a lot about this and I
didn't figure this out until a couple
weeks ago like why are things so
different in 2023 than 2022 they're
obviously very different than 2021 I
think for most of us during the crazy
lockdown era it's just not so and this
is what I know this sounds obvious but
or maybe it doesn't this is what
someone's been doing SAS since 2005.
this is the first time in the last 10
years
that SAS has gotten harder
okay it has gotten harder and let me
just talk through it for a minute
because it took me a while to really
understand this and there were some
bumps um and this is just I took from
the bvp cloud index just the overall
growth of the markets and the top one I
know I'm colorblind is it blue or black
or someone tell me the top one anyhow is
all the public Cloud stocks and their
stock prices and what you can see is
that look there were a few bumps and if
you squint
I know there's a little line there have
been some downturns at disaster annual
in 2016 most people don't even know this
remember there was a flash crash in
2016. there was a flash crash and it was
worse than anything other than 2008 2009
for about four months people stopped
buying anything in SAS it's nothing like
today literally every CIO stopped buying
it it was so crazy that LinkedIn even
though they were profitable in public
panicked and sold to Microsoft like why
this the Market's panicked okay and the
Market's also sort of panicked as we'll
remember around March of 2020 but what
happened then is they were short right
the nuttiness of the lockdown didn't
last right three months later Zoom
exploded slack exploded we had a tear in
SAS purchasing like we'd never seen so
even though it was a rough four weeks or
eight weeks or 12 weeks it was so short
and even that great you can almost quit
and see that downtrend even though that
2016 downturn was rough it only it
didn't last a year it lasted six months
or seven months the weird thing is now
we're in year two of a tougher cycle
year two too and and I put this up 2011
to 2016 outside of that bump SAS went
from really hard like no one would buy
your product unless it changed the world
and no one would pay anything but he
sure got a little bit easier people knew
a little bit more about SAS and then box
went public in 2015.
um one week before the SAS test Daniel
and people still didn't understand SAS
but at least they would buy a little bit
more and if you were lucky enough to get
to a hundred million in Revenue back
then like HubSpot or box you could IPO
right things were smaller and then
between about 2016 and 22 after that
that little crash came back everything
got easier it wasn't easy it was always
hard but it just got easier deal sizes
went up folks that used to know how to
sell a product for 3K could figure out
how to sell it to 10K to more
stakeholders and more budget opened up
and SAS went from weird to mainstream
over these years then right before
lockdown it got pretty good okay 2018
and 29 were like wow there's unicorns
now
when Ron HubSpot ipoed it was worth 800
million when box IPO does worth 900
million public companies weren't even
unicorns okay back then all of a sudden
startups could be unicorns and so it
started to get easy
it started to get easy we started to
hire started in some cases to lower the
bar on hiring
um and more importantly it all became
kind of mainstream normal people went
into SAS it wasn't quirky people that
did startups it wasn't crazy people that
did this it was ordinary regular old
people and it just changed the surface
area if we hired it just got easier and
then 2020 and 201 got to almost too easy
not necessarily for us as Founders but
I'll tell you a story
sometime around June or something of
2020 uh someone I knew called me and he
said hey my daughter went into SAS sales
I'm like great she just graduated from
college she went to DocuSign who I I
knew I used to be with I'm like great
how did it go she closed five deals her
first day she's great at sales
okay she's great at sale she's never
this is her first job ever but she's so
good at sales intuitively that she
closed five deals her first day okay
um that was a moment in time that we all
thought crazily might last forever but
think about it tell you it makes no
sense right that was everyone needed a
call center they needed to e-signatures
they needed they needed to collaborate
and it was crazy and so be it we know
that that was a unique moment time but I
think our culture has changed and it and
I don't mean to sound uh like someone
that's been doing this a while or almost
a fuddy Daddy but folks on your team
um and Founders that have only raised
capital for example over the last couple
years you folks don't even know what it
used to be like and so what happened was
then we got to 2022 and 2022 in some
ways was terrible because it was a huge
overhang the Market's actually really
peaked just at the end of 2021
um and I remember
one of my first group of Investments
um from 2013 to 2015 was sales Loft and
I invested in sales off almost
pre-pre-revenue and it was the last big
acquisition that happened they got up
for almost two and a half billion in
cash and it closed December 31st 2021
okay pretty good number
um and they just crossed a little over
100 million in Revenue so at the time
when deals were being done at really
high multiples it was like 20x which
seemed like a latte but then it actually
was a decent deal for a PE workout but
it was interesting because that deal
almost fell apart in December by the
time the deal got signed it was exciting
but by the end investors were starting
to panic there was questions could we
could we get out of the term sheet it
wasn't quite said but Panic had already
sort of set in and that was that's when
I saw it coming down and then it just
the markets just plummeted as we know
right and and so 2022 was crazy but we
were in kind of a free fall in the
public markets no one knew what happened
right and we didn't know would we bounce
off the floor and fly back up to the top
what would happen and so it was a weird
year where at this beginning at that
those those those two and a half billion
dollar deals stopped happening so the
series f and g and H and IG investors
started to slow down but the D and the C
and the B investors were still there and
then by about the end of q1 of 2022 the
D and the C's were gone but the B's and
the A's were still in the market and
then the B's started to fade away over
the summer as the valuations plummeted
I'm gonna kept going and I would say
probably by the end of last year A's
disappeared okay and I actually don't
think very many SAS series A's are
happening which we can chat a little bit
more later but it took a while but it
was a weird year right because
everything was changing before our eyes
we and we didn't know what and I wrote a
long post of like it's gonna bounce back
but what is the angle of Bounce going to
be right is it going to be like flat to
this up or to the right I personally
never thought we would have two years of
a public company sort of downturn or
what we are but but what are we at now
now we're not what I what looks like a
flat turn Okay this was up and down but
now and I I could extend out a little
bit more like actually the the public
markets are sort of flat this year some
of them are up a bit the snowflakes and
Cloud players and others have actually
come back from the bottom a few others
are down but we're in a world where it's
flat and multiples what public companies
are valued at as a multiple Revenue are
pretty crummy
there's a handful that are more than 10x
the snowflakes and Cloud flares have
spots but the average I think we'll see
it on the next slide I think it's about
five or six x
so the average SAS company really good
ones public ones are worth five to six
times the revenue and they have been now
we're getting into two years of this
two years of this and this is just what
it is and it's so it I actually as some
of you will say oh my God it's so hard
out there revenue's down I don't think
it's so hard I just think it got hard
again it basically got as hard as it
used to be it got as hard as it should
be
um there is not a limited budget cios
small businesses do not have unlimited
money there's a fixed amount and if you
disrupt something if you do something
better than Salesforce or Zoom or
HubSpot or slack or even uipath if you
do something that is 10 times better you
will get money but it's because you're
disrupting that budget you're stealing
budget from one vendor to a new vendor
that will always exist even in the
tougher times but we're back so it's a
weird thing and I think I'm still
struggling with this at some level with
Founders I work with and even on our
tiny little team at sassron I think
folks are is like there's a lot of DNA
that changed during this peak and this
last year and there's a lot of bad
practices there's a lot of folks who
complain they think sales is hard
because you know what now they have to
they have to close four to five times
their OT when really it was like 2x when
the market peaked right or marketers
really have to develop Pipeline and
other things happen and and so it's just
harder and so I don't we're gonna it by
the end of this year either multiples
May rebound or I think we will have
churned through a whole generation of
folks who close five deals the first day
on the job so anyhow that's my tone of I
still challenge you and we'll go through
this things are not that bad like things
are down overall about 30 I wrote it up
on saster we had data from altimeter we
had data from chart Mogul we had data
from Andreessen all the last two weeks
things are about a third harder growth
is down by about a third but growth is
not down 100 percent it is down by about
a third from when it's easier so
everything's 33 to 50 harder that maybe
that's the way it should be so that's
that's how I think about it and but the
craziest thing isn't really the growth
the craziest thing if you don't study
this
in one year and Daniel kind of talked
about it actually before how uipath did
I don't know if you just heard him
uipath went from losing 400 million in a
year to being almost break even the next
year that was on that was unprecedented
now it's precedented
because every public company has done
this and people have been wondering for
10 years can SAS be profitable at scale
and no one knew now everyone is
efficient right and I'll show you just a
couple of examples here's HubSpot and
HubSpot obviously a hero company for all
of us right a lot of us love the
founders and and yamini and it's a lot
like our companies they just crossed 2
billion in Revenue okay and all the way
up to 2 billion HubSpot selling to smbs
at a 10K price point they thread a
needle like they didn't they didn't go
they wanted to invest in the business
they wanted to invest in sales and
marketing and engineering and product
and so their net margins were pretty low
as you can see on the left like they
were positive back to 2017 but they
weren't much right they were investing
almost everything back in the business
and then look what happened over the
last year radically more profit almost
nothing to 13.5 percent margins now I
think this is non-gaap we don't have to
talk about we can let the CFOs and
others we can talk about the differences
but how spot is radically more
profitable than it was a year ago and
we're seeing this everywhere and like
here's another fascinating one
monday.com I mean monday.com is crazy
it's growing I just wrote up I forget I
think it's growing 50 at 640 million in
AR pretty good right pretty good but
look what they did on the left here's
Monday's head count grow go grow and
then what do they do for for a year flat
right so they they held the head count
flat they've just restarted some hiring
but mostly for engineering but they grew
50 so if head counts flat and you grow
50 what happens to the bottom line it
gets a lot better so look at this
radical change from Monday radical
change investing in growth investing in
growth all through Q2 of 2022 as the
world changed right negative negative
margin that was okay they had tons of
money
um they went public that's what the cash
is for right to grow quickly like
Daniel's talked about but then the world
changed and Monday become radically
different from minus 16 margins to 24 in
one year 24 is really hard to do now
again this is non-gaap I'm not going to
get into this in a short session but 20
is pretty darn hard to do 30 is what
Salesforce is trying to do very mature
so look at that rate of change like
we've never seen this rate of change in
our lives in SAS of companies going from
everyone being okay about being
inefficient as long as it's growth to
radically efficient and almost there are
a handful of folks that are public that
haven't done this but almost everyone
else that you analyze is going to gone
through this radical efficiency change
and
this may be the most we'll see it may
not stick okay it may be that multiples
reflate and good times are back and
capital flows and we get back to the to
the to the to the slightly drunk levels
of the past maybe I don't know or maybe
for the first time ever in SAS ever in
our working lifetimes efficiency
actually matters that it actually
matters it hasn't really mattered
um people complained about SAS during
the early IPOs box of the Next
Generation and on Salesforce of the
prior generation they complained why
they weren't profitable enough but the
market still tolerated it people
tolerated that SAS was always kind of
investing in the future like the Amazon
model Jeff Bezos was always be patient
and in a way Mark benioff and others
were like that but maybe we're done
maybe we're done with inefficiency and
at the end of the day
software used to be incredibly
profitable Adobe Adobe today almost 50
cents of every dollar goes to Pure
profit it's 40 something percent of
every day that's the way software used
to work a bunch of folks would write
some code you'd burn it on a DVD ROM
that cost like 50 cents and you'd sell
it for 50 bucks okay so yeah it was kind
of expensive to to get the engineers but
but the old classic software companies
were so profitable like your eyes would
cry and SAS never got there but SAS can
be SAS can be maybe we can't spend as
much on sales and marketing and GNA and
maybe even product engines we used to me
we just all have to spend 33 percent
less forever and it's doable like Monday
did it in one year HubSpot did it in one
year a lot of you did it in one year but
most startups are just thinking about
this as a temporary thing the board said
get more efficient like we're not sure
we can raise another round so we're
going to pause we're gonna slow down
that's very different than fundamentally
changing all of the metrics and numbers
we've looked at for 10 or 15 years that
everything is going to have to change
everything's going to get 33 percent
more efficient and maybe 33 percent
harder quotas will have to be actually
be met everything will have to be more
disciplined so will this stick I don't
know but again we're coming into 18
months into this change time maybe it's
not a downturn but it's a side turn it's
a reflattening and if if we if we end up
24 months into this and multiples are
sort of the same I think we are in a new
efficient world for the first time in
SAS we will not we will not go back
people now know like you can't say hey
well we're always invest that we can't
be profitable Monday doesn't want to be
profitable HubSpot doesn't need to be
profitable you can't now we've proven
they can be the exact same companies
with the exact same products and the
exact same management we're able to
become radically more efficient in a
year and you know net net it's doing uh
more with not that many more people
that's the change right not not the
flood of people yeah that's that's
that's the new world
um so a couple related points some two
different ways to look at this data I
like this one
chart mobile just put this together the
other day I put it up on saster and I
thought it summarized a lot of things
briefly and they looked I don't know how
many customers they have but maybe a
thousand something I wrote it up on
saster but this was super interesting
they tracked the overall growth of their
their companies from 1 to 30.
um and anyone that's tracking direct
metrics it's super interesting and so
what do they see their top quartile now
everyone may have different top
quartiles and medians but it's still
it's still very interesting because it's
probably consistent they're top quartile
in 2021 hit 100 annual growth from one
to three hundred obviously there are
outliers there are there are ripplings
that'll be here later and uipaths and
and looms that are all speaking today
that grew faster than 100 this isn't top
one percent but this is top quartile
okay that they could double in 2021 and
this is interesting because if you
double at this rate it also means
roughly you can raise Venture Capital
roughly at this rate you know triple
triple double double if you're doubling
you can raise Venture Capital if you're
growing 65 that's still pretty good
growth you can't raise money so one when
all these companies became unfundable
over the course this year right and two
what really happened is the best ones
still grew
um but they grew 33 percent less than
they did at the peak and I think this
remember and less than 2020. so similar
things happen with the median startup
but this is where we're at and so
there's a bunch of lessons from this but
one of this is It's not like the top
quartile is growing zero
is growing zero and I I don't mean to be
direct but with a few exceptions I don't
have any empathy for startups that had
decent growth during 2021 and have
slowed to zero okay I don't have any
empathy you really have no customers
really none no what it really means is
your product wasn't valuable enough it
means you no longer have product Market
fit it means you fell out of product
Market fit it means in 2021 when a
director of sales had budget and can buy
your product but now the VP of sales or
CFO doesn't see value that's on you
right that's not the market you didn't
build a valuable enough company go
change your product go tilt go iterate
so there's enough value
um if your growth is slowed 33 since the
peak I got a lot of empathy if this is
you I have I have a lot of empathy
you're not alone because these are the
top quartile there are macro impacts not
for everybody I would say 20 to 30 20 or
so and we'll see some other data in a
minute twenty percent or so of SAS
companies are not impact at all they
have no macro impacts for a lot of
reasons but on average you're down to
third so here's where I have empathy and
below that it's Cry Me a River like this
isn't meant to be easy okay everyone
already has bought 200 SAS products no
one needs yours too okay most businesses
that out there work just fine do we need
the 11 000 prospecting tool or the 58th
thousand payroll system we do not the
tools are okay that we have today build
something disruptive build something
amazing that will get someone to switch
and you'll unlock the budget so anyhow I
thought this was super interesting to
see and here's another variant um the
German ball from altimeter put up he's
got a great blog on sub stack he looked
at all the public companies and there's
a lot of data in here but if you look at
the left in red on the medium public
company growth is down 35 so it's
interesting that sort of ties to the
Chart Moogle data it's not like any
public companies stop have no Revenue
right but overall it's down it's down
about 35 Monday is growing 50 at 640
million which is stunning but I think at
400 million it was growing like 80 okay
and so new bookings are down a third but
the new bookings are still coming in and
and if you look at the left I said about
20 of SAS startups are unimpacted you
can kind of see that on the left those
are folks that are that have that are
growing faster than they were before in
servicenow
um and a few others HubSpot Diner Trace
you can see these are the ones that are
having no macro impacts for for
different reasons
um so it's harder but it ain't so hard
that that either the startups or the
public companies can still get there um
but but they are now radically more
efficient than they were so this is kind
of I wanted to synthesize everything
that I'm seeing it should be a third
harder for most of us not all of us
um but but go sell something and then to
tie together I know you folks have seen
this and maybe the point I made before
is marching we'll talk about this will
get threaded through tomorrow or we have
a ton of VC content VCT type content and
I can talk more about if people want to
I know people have seen different charts
uh versus but I like this version from
Carta that showed through q1 you know
you can just see the Peak Adventure in
that it's just plummeted right it's just
plummeted Capital fell eighty percent
and I know everyone knows this but I if
I had to give you one takeaway
it ties back to the price I'd hear a lot
of Founders are like okay I want to
raise I want to raise an a around or a
late seed round or something and I'm
like how are you doing I'm like well
we're at 2 million error we're going 40
um but last year we were growing much
more quickly it's just harder today I'm
like I get it
but you're not going to get funded and
if I had to give you one we can talk
more about this tomorrow if I had to
give you one takeaway is if you are if
you're if your Revenue if it's 33 harder
than it was last year you're not alone
right but it doesn't change the math of
fundraising you're not going to get a
pass from new investors now your
existing investors may give you extra
money may give you a bridge or an
extension because they understand the 33
impact right if you were doubling last
year and you're great Founders and the
and the growth is a little bit down this
year they may give you another million
dollars or half million or five million
dollars because they know because there
are they're already in your cap table
they're already invested and they will
cut you some slack for that 33 but new
investors they can't and this is why
there's so much stress across Adventure
today because you need to get to 100 or
200 million in AR and seven to ten years
for venture to work and if you're not
growing at a rate that can compound to
100 million in that Journey you you
simply can't make VCS enough money for
them to make money Founders don't get it
right and so there's old math that Niraj
from Battery put together a while ago
triple triple double double you know you
got to Triple after one million one to
three triple again three to nine then
nine to eighteen eighteen to thirty six
not everyone quite does triple triple
double double but the reason it's so
such a useful heuristic is that gets you
to 100 million in seven to eight to nine
to ten years that's what it takes and if
you fall below that line it doesn't mean
you're a bad human or a bad startup or
your customers don't love you it just
means Venture capitalists can't make
enough money to invest in you right so a
deeper topic but just realize your your
existing investors may cut you slack if
growth is slowed but new investors are
just gonna pass right they're just going
to pass and this is why the markets have
have Frozen and I will tell you simply
um
I've talked to so many folks and uh I
met I met with one of the best SAS VCS
growth multi-stage 10 billion 20 billion
under management it's done so many of
the so many of the Great SAS companies
through IPO and I met with him last week
before I came out here like what do you
what how are you guys thinking and like
well you know first of all our
investment pace is down 80 from where it
was at the peak which is kind of like
this data and said but what do you think
what if I gave you a triple triple
double double company he's like even
that we don't even know if we want
unless it's AI we're not even sure we
want to invest today okay the markets
are just sort of paralyzed and Frozen
um and again you're not going to get cut
any slack and I've already had this
conversation like six times this morning
can I I want to raise and my growth is
down well you know it's Cry Me a River
it the math has to work out
um anyhow I wrote this tweet the other
day there's essentially zero interest in
ABC SAS feces or anything there's an AI
that a version of the story I just told
zero interest but pretty darn close
we'll talk about that but you know maybe
this is Dan Simon one of the most
successful Angels uh you know top angel
board member for Zoom he owns owns like
one point something percent of Zoom
personally Sentinel one so many other I
mean probably the best angel track
record but just a reminder the pendulum
will swing back which will be kind of
the last point we talk about and I'll
have to go through this a little bit
quickly because the prior session went
long but I want to hit a couple other
points
and I I write up the Gartner data a lot
on saster I used to be a skeptic of of
Gartner when I was a CEO years ago
because it always seemed like you kind
of paid them to get the research and it
was pay to play and there's a lot of
stuff so be it in terms of the research
but the great thing about Gartner is
there's no one that talks to as many in
the Enterprise cios and buyers as they
do okay they're constantly surveying
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of
buyers so even when their numbers change
a little bit I generally find it's
always some of the most directionally
correct data that we can access as
Founders and Executives so what does
Gartner say well
you know SAS is still going to grow 18
in spend this year and another 18 next
year people are still going to spend
almost 200 million dollars in the US
alone on SAS just in the Enterprise 200
billion and 230 billion next year now a
lot of that's going to go to incumbents
a lot of it's going to go to Price
raises and inflation okay but it's sure
it sure ain't going down so change the
world and you can access some of that
incremental 30 billion dollars just an
incremental 30 billion that next year is
still going and this is only Enterprise
this isn't even SMB that's still going
in this year so overall things are
trending good for SAS people are buying
more and more of our products they're
just buying different with more scrutiny
than they did 18 months ago as we all
kind of know and yeah I thought this was
a good summary with twilio this is um
this is that one of their classic
Billboards in the Bay Area and it just
shows how buying has changed right so
for like 10 years basically truly had
versions of the same one on the right
ask your developer ask your developer
you need to add voice you need to add
SMS how would you do ask your developer
they'll make the decision this was
empowering the line to buy which
benefited so many of us in the peak now
it's reducing costs by 65
now now this is something you can go
show your CFO on your phone hey if we
use twilio our costs are going down 65
so for all of twilio's first decade or
so ask your developer ask your developer
ask yourself now it's this is this is
the theme of the day pager Duty had a
very similar one and I thought it was
just and so netting at my last point is
and so many I think Founders have
adjusted to this but it took folks a
while folks are complaining oh my God
now the CFO has to approve my deal now I
have more stakeholders now I have to go
through scrutiny now I have to go
through an extra layer of procurement
and I'm like Cry Me a River this is the
way it used to be until 2020. it used to
be everything that had to be approved by
the CFO it used to be you had to do
seven things and you had to do a pilot
and you had to resell it after the pilot
and you had to do all of it and you had
to go through all of it and then all
this budget everything became about
invest testing and growth through SAS
and it all it all got lost in 20 and
2021 and people went to VPS and
directors and gave them a reasonable
amount of budget to just go spend just
go buy the apps you need to grow even
faster and that's gone they no longer
have those budgets their bosses have
those budgets as you can see from the
Gartner data it's not like the budgets
disappeared but those folks that could
just buy your app without the cfo's
approval that's just been that's just
gone in most businesses but it's just
like it used to be it used to be this
way until about 2018 so we're just kind
of Back to the Future or something like
that so if I I think this is my last
slide let me go back or close to it this
is my last point and I'll try to wrap up
in two minutes because I lost a little
bit of time but
for Founders and others
the biggest challenge through the rest
of the year and into next year is really
just multiples it's just multiples
Revenue multiples and I as a Founder I
never really thought about what
multiples were I never really looked
them up even when I started investing I
didn't really care what are you going to
do as a seed investor are you going to
worry about the multiples just disinvest
in the company an early stage company
hope it gets big you don't worry about
it but because it's so much impacts bind
it's so much impacts every round from a
on you everyone needs to be an expert on
multiples on multiples right and this is
sort of low growth mid-growth high
growth again from altimeter you know
there has been a bit of it's probably
the this I think this is last week there
has been a bit of a a bounce at the end
but some folks in the stock market I'm
not sure I love this term they call it a
dead cat bounce I don't hear the term
it's like even when when the market
drops a lot like it may bounce off the
bottom but it doesn't mean that it's
that it's it's really anything real it's
not such a big bounce so some people
think it's back a little bit but again
until we're above to simplify this for
folks until the average good public SAS
company and maybe this is mid growth is
above 10x there's stress there's stress
it's almost impossible for late stage
investors to make money right if if if
the gr if the average public company is
doing 300 million and trading at a
billion something in Revenue who's going
to do a unicorn there's no room to to
make money you've got to Triple your
money at least as a late stage investor
how can you invest in a billion if the
company after all this hard work ipo's
at 2 billion and there's more dilution
so it's just broken
um if we stay here and we've been here
as you can see since since we came off
this peak we've been here for a while
we've been in this 6x7x world for a
while and depending on how you look at
it it may be the lowest multiple since
2017 2018 maybe longer depending on how
you cut the data
um but will we stay in this world it's a
world we've been in before it's a world
where you can be efficient and
profitable but it's not it's hard it's
hard to raise Capital it's hard to get
anywhere or will we reflate even just 20
or 30 percent that's like we need to
study this as Founders and everything
will change if it gets just a little bit
easier but we've been here for a while
guys and it's there's no evidence we got
it we got to live in the real world as
Founders and leaders and right now
there's no evidence that it's going to
get any easier there's no evidence going
to get any harder like Enterprise buying
still up 18 these these they're still
good companies but multiples are rough
and that's also why almost every unicorn
of the last couple years isn't worth
what they were worth then the multiples
didn't support it when they're up at the
top it was great right when companies
were worth 40x the top companies when
they're public snowflake was worth 80x
it was easy now it's just it just the
math doesn't fit so that was my last
Point here don't be waiting for a
rebound but just lastly to summarize
then we can chat more tomorrow and later
I I thought we're 18 months into this
reset again I I think that's a better
term than a downturn we're resetting to
at least right now it's we're resetting
to where we were before this big run
we're 18 months into it and so what I
said to you before is let's hope for
better I do think as an optimist
multiples will be higher I do think
buyers are still there but we got a plan
for more of the same I think as Founders
you have to plan that 18 months is a
long time 18 months is not the flash
crash of 2016 or the weirdness of 2020.
it's a 18 months is a long time it's not
terrible it's still growing
um but we can't plan for it to get any
this year so I sort of summarized it in
Five Points one and I know a lot of
folks are still grappling with this a
lot of folks in sales AES and serious
are still freaking grouchy in 2023.
they're grouchy because they're all
making less money than last year and
less money than the year before and
maybe they entered the markets in 2020
and 21 and they think this is way too
hard like I actually like Sam said at
the beginning I have to do outbound I
have to set my own calendar I actually
have to generate pipeline like there are
a lot of AES I know are
complaining they're still complaining
but the math has to work again there's
not so much Venture Capital to lubricate
the system that sales reps at the end of
the day can get away with closing 2X or
even one time
um uh multiples it's we're back to three
to five x OTE so if a rep wants to make
150 Grand a year U.S great but if you're
Enterprise you better close five times
that mid-market four times SMB three
times otherwise they're they're not
efficient enough and we talked about
efficiency so sales has got to get back
to real world numbers that that have
made sense since the dawn of time to
I know everyone sort of gets this but
Founders still are too optimistic about
venture capital in my experience almost
every founder knows it's harder but they
still don't realize how hard it is and
maybe we'll chat about a little bit
tomorrow if nothing else like the old
days until about 2019 assume every round
is harder assume that the next round
won't come as people are saying I've
written this up many times it got harder
and we went through this weird
perversion or inversion of this from
2019 to late 2021 where each round if
you are a great company if you were
great not not for everyone Venture
Capital has always been for the
privileged few but if you were in the
zone it actually got easier each round
got easier and you would look around
you'd be like oh my God they were worth
300 million last month and now they're
what's they're doing another round at
600 and then another round at 1.2 and
not only Was it crazy the numbers but
what was crazier is each round got
easier there was so much momentum in the
market so much fomo that it was crazy
that each round got it's never happened
in my lifetime since my first job and it
may never happen again that each round
value it's supposed to get harder it's
supposed to get harder as you approach
the value of a public company it's very
hard for investors to make three to five
times their money right it's very hard
it should be if you think about it now
VCS need to make at least three times
late stage VCS early stage VCS want to
make 100x series B want to make 10x and
late stage want to make 3 to 4X if
you're only air quotes only going to be
worth 2 billion How even no matter where
you are how can anyone afford to invest
a higher than a 500 million dollar
valuation think about it just to make 4X
even 3x with some dilution risk that's
going to be about the ceiling right and
you don't really see any growth rounds
being done much more than 500 million
today for that reason they really just
don't one of the best companies I've
invested in it's coming up on 50 million
the growth's pretty good
um not it's almost profitable not much
to complain about one of the leading
growth investors really really wanted to
invest and they're just like but our
ceilings this is just like two weeks ago
their ceilings 500 million it doesn't
really matter beyond that they have 10
billion dollars so just we just don't
unless you're really going to be worth
20 billion we just that's our lines for
this math like we don't think we can
make more than 3x our money so no matter
what it is we're we're just stopping at
500 million this is for a late stage
investment so is it kind of tied to this
point
um the third point which we chatted
about
but and you can't just cut and public
companies know this like I mean layoffs
were brutal for public companies but
they kind of did the good ones did this
did this did this thing of precision
HubSpot did some layoffs but it wasn't
that much and it let them become
radically more efficient here I think
they did 10 look I know it's not easy to
do layoffs but they went from from
somewhat efficient to radically an
efficient year it was it was a tweak
right it was a tweak Monday I don't know
if they did layoffs but they did hiring
basically a hiring freeze it worked
right and it made them radically more
efficient
um that works like you know growing your
Revenue faster than your expenses always
works but just cutting solves no
long-term problem right and so you've
got to still do marketing
um and I think there will be a rebound
in marketing by the end of this year
everyone that cut marketing to zero in
the beginning of this year was gonna
have no pipeline at the end of this year
that is the looming Cliff for so many
everyone below the public company stage
is not going to have enough pipeline at
the end of the year they're gonna have
to deal with this everyone thought the
marketing was dumb everyone thought
field events were Dom or webinars were
dumb or podcast ads were dumb and
basically everything in marketing for
many folks everything in marketing for
the last six nine months is you need an
Roi measured in like three months or
less if you can spend the money but I
need that I need to deliver that into
Revenue this quarter it doesn't work
that way in marketing so you can't just
cut your way to growth and we're all
going to see this price at the end of
the year but to be efficient this is
like old school math that I did when I
was a Founder in HubSpot maybe for every
dollar in new uh Revenue you bring in I
guess that really should be ARR um spend
75 instead of spending two times what
you bring in spend 75 of it you'll
you'll you'll never you'll never you'll
never fail if you if you spend most but
not all of your new bookings
um and then my last couple points
um not to read from the slide but I
think they're useful going to the prior
Point all of this may be out the window
if we see even a modest rebound of
multiples right if if the average public
company reflates to 10x
um VCS are going to be able to make more
money that means startups will get more
money that means everyone will spend
more money that means you you can you
can you can overpay people on your teams
you can do whatever you can over hire
you can make all these it'll be okay I
mean you'll get a lot easier if we see a
rebound of multiples but again it's been
18 months and we haven't seen it and we
haven't even seen the decline we could
all kind of intellectually say hey we're
just in this crazy Free Fall period but
now that it's been flat for six months
there's just no evidence that will come
out but maybe interest rates will come
down if everything in multiple is really
just an inverted version of of the fed
maybe when the FED starts to cut
multiples will reflect but there's no
evidence of it yet
um and then just kind of two final
points on the state of everything for
folks that I don't know what it's
exactly like in London I've only been
here four days but to say that no matter
just say you know on Twitter you see
everyone's talking about AI in the Bay
Area and SAS they understate it
understated the only thing anyone is
interested in the Bay Area is AI nothing
everything they want AI they don't want
fake AI they don't want the fact that
you did some crappy chat gbt integration
uh last week what they really want are
companies that can grow at insane rates
because they displace human beings
that's what VCS want they want companies
they can go one to ten to a hundred like
in two years that will just replace
hundreds of jobs that radical efficiency
and that's what every VC in the Bay Area
is hunting they and they will throw
crazy amounts of money at startups that
might be that but but as crazy as it's
not there's a mission here they're
looking for folks that can get to 100
million in a radically short amount of
time by frankly displacing a huge amount
of jobs right and uh and so that's
that's what we're looking for but
there's too many of them these 10
million dollar 20 million rounds in the
bear they can't last right not enough of
these companies are going to go from one
to 100 in two years and so uh we'll
we'll see what happens in SAS um and
then the final point just to note and
you know this year was the slowest year
so far for SAS IPOs last year was the
second slowest ever and then 2021 was an
IPO day it was an IPO day to nunce it's
nuns right now it's frozen but there are
so many SAS companies at 200 million and
above waiting to go to IPO I've invested
in four and a half that are at 200
million from like 2013 to 2015 batch
they're all waiting at 200 million no
one wants to IPO at a 800 million dollar
valuation or 1 billion especially if the
last round was higher and the markets
are frozen anyway but I don't know where
to predict this all is except when
things do open when if multiples do
reflate a little bit we will see this
spring of set public SAS companies like
we've never seen right there's a whole
new wave they're only a handful in the
beginning and then they seem to flower
but overall the buying is so big there's
just so many at 200 plus millionaire and
then you know canva announced this week
that they crossed 1.5 billion in AR
profitable for five years I mean just
sitting waiting to go public at 1.5
billion right I mean HubSpot is such a
great company and it just hit two canvas
quietly off in the corner profitable
with its plg plus sales team thing
coming up on 2 billion quietly waiting
for the markets to reopen now it does
sit on a 40 billion valuation which is a
little stressful which is where some of
the press came out but uh pretty crazy
the amount of high quality companies
that are just waiting for the markets to
reopen so thanks everyone for coming and
we'll chat more during the two days
[Applause]